## Process Management

In Linux, a process is a running program.

Process management allows us to monitor, control, and manage running applications in the system.

It is important for troubleshooting high CPU usage, memory issues, and unresponsive services in production servers.

        nohup - Runs a command or script in the background that doesn't terminate even after logout.
                Used for python jobs, deployments, servers, long running scripts, cron jobs.
                Basically inorder to run code in background nohup is used.
        
        -nohup python script.py &                    - Output is written to nohup.out by default.
        -nohup python3 data.py >> data_process.log & - this stores running python3 data.py code in data_process.log
### Commands
        ps                 - Show running processes
        ps aux             - Detailed process list
        top                - Shows live system perfomance like Task Manager
        htop               - Advanced process viewer
        kill PID           - Terminate process
        kill -9 PID        - Forcefull termination process
        bg                 - Run process in background
        fg                 - Bring process to foreground
        jobs               - Show background jobs
        uptime             - Show how long the system has been running.

### Examples
        cat data_process.log          - shows printing datum in background
        tail -f data_process.log      - shows currently printing datum
        tail -10 file                 - Prints running 10 recent data
        tail -50 file                 - Prints running 50 recent data
        ps aux|grep data_process.py   - To find running process of that particular file. 


Process management in Linux is used to monitor and control running programs in the system.
Using these above commands like we can check active processes and stop them whenever required.
It is necessary for managing servers and troubleshooting issues.

                                                            *****
